# Mastermind
My program consists of 4 classes: 

The Guess contains the code that has been guessed by the computer and 2 main methods. The Match method compares this guess to the secret code and returns the number of black and white pegs. The Guess method is a constructor that creates a char array the size of the number of pegs chosen to hold the code begin guessed.

The Game class holds the game parameters such as the secret code, maximum guesses and number of pegs and maintains a list of all possible guesses. It then uses this list to choose the next guess and reduces the list after each guess based on the results returned for the guesses to reduce the search space. There are 5 main methods here the first being Game. This is a constructor that calculates the maximum number of guesses for the number of pegs and colours chosen using the number of colours^number of pegs. It then creates a list to hold all the possible guesses and populates this list with the guessed colours. The GenerateSecretCode method generates the secret code to be guessed by creating a new array for the secret code and assigning it random colours. The constructor then initialises the possible guesses list by populating it with all possible codes using the InitaliseAllpossibleCodes method. After this it generates a guess (MakeNextGuess) from the list of remaining possible guesses and if the game is not complete, reduces the possible guesses based on the results for the current guess (ReducePossibilities).

The Board class takes the number of pegs (columns) and maximum number of guesses (rows) to create a grid. It maintains a list of all guesses made so far along with a list of their results (black and white pegs) and draws the grid with all guesses and results using 3 methods. The first is the constructor. This sets the row and column size, creates a list for the guesses and results and then calls a method to initialise the grid. The InitialiseBoard method sets all pegs to ‘*’. The final method for this class is DrawBoard which displays the grid to the user based on the colours guessed previously, the current guess and the black and white pegs for each guess.

Finally, is the program class. This captures user input to determine the number of pegs and maximum guesses and runs the main loop of the game.

